#summary PhiloMineLoad: Generating Extended Instance and Feature Data

= Introduction =

If you have installed the modified !PhiloLogic loader components, the system will create a directory under the database target directory called philomineload.  This directory is where we will generate document and div level data for Philomine2. There are two scripts, `philominedocload.pl` and `philominedivload.pl`.  You should be able to run these directly with no problems.
{{{
./philominedocload.pl -english [-french] -1
}}}
This generates *document* level instance data, sets the language for treetagger and the filter for retaining of bi/tri grams/lemmas as a percentage of documents.  Defaults at 1.
{{{
./philominedivload.pl -english [-french] -.01
}}}
This generates *division* level instanace data, sets the language for treetagger and the filter for retaining of bi/tri grams/lemmas as a percentage of documents.  Note the smaller percentage because you have many more instances.  NOTE!! You must comment out the treetagger option you do NOT want and uncomment the one you want before running this.  For an English load:
{{{
        if ($dblang eq "-english") {
             use Alvis::TreeTaggerEnglish;
             $SPLITONAPOSTROPHE = 0;    # Set on off....
             }
        elsif ($dblang eq "-french") {
             # use Alvis::TreeTaggerFrench;
            $SPLITONAPOSTROPHE = 1;    # Set on off....
            }
}}}
Yes, this is stupid.  We're looking at a runtime Module load mechanism.  I've tried a bunch of ways, with no love.  Suggestions please.

====



= !PhiloLogic Modifications =

The distribution contains a modified version `xml-sgmlloader.plin` (our standard TEI XML/SGML text loader) to generate data that are required for div and subdivlevel !PhiloMine loading.  It now checks for a new configuration setting in `textload.cfg`:
{{{
# ------------------------- Dump Philomine Chunks -------------------
# Generate the files for Philomine object chunks.  This will take as 
# much space as the raw text files.  Writes a chunkified version of the
# text file to frequencies/wordfreqdoc/  PHILODOCID.rawchunks  This data
# is read later by philomindivload.pl to generate frequency lists of
# lemmas, bigrams, and bilemmas.  Normally off.
$DUMPPHILOMINECHUNKS = 1;
}}}

If it sees this, it will dump raw text files as indicated.  These are simply the 
words associated with each !PhiloID object.  Eg:

{{{
DIV     200:1:1:5
    THE EARLY DEAD.    
SUBDIV  200:1:1:5:1   Why mourn for the Young? Better that the light cloud 
                      should fade away in the morning's breath, than travel 
                      through the weary day, to gather in darkness, and end in 
                      storm.          Bulwer.  
}}}

All the words in each SUBDIV should be on one line.  To accumlate DIVS, simple read all the words until the next DIV.  It is our approach to index all DIV breaks (thus for the Encyclopédie we would read a main article to the first subarticle.  

We should be able to use this for SUBDIV (paragraph, etc) loading in future.

The reason for this step is to make sure that our object vectors correspond exactly
to the PhiloLogic object identifiers.  Russ and I decided that synchronizing these
independently of the load process would be more of a hassle and prone to error (given
the stunts we do on loading).  In case of errors, it should ALSO be limited to a single
object, since I grab the philoids when they are generated.  

Also note that I modified loader.xmake to copy the contents of `installdir/philomineload` to your database directory.


= NGRAM/LEMMA CALCULATION =

Both loader scripts generate NGRAMS/LEMMAS by reading words in and eliminating the 
words found in the automatically generated `LOADDIR/lib/cluster.filter.wrds`.
You may want to look at this file, to make sure that you are not eliminating
any content words, since this just takes (roughly) the top 120.  You can, in 
each, specify a different filter word file if you want.  There may be other 
problems that pop-up, but so far it looks OK.


= PHILOMINE DOCUMENT LEVEL OBJECTS =

This is currently set to generate lemmas, bigrams,
bilemmas, trigrams, and trilemmas.  

To run this `./philominedocload.pl -[english/french] -[number]`

We can add more languages at one point.  -[number] is a low end filter for bi/tri-grams/lemmas expressed as the percentage of instances.  Thus -1 is 1% of the documents, so in a load of 500, an NGRAM must appear in more than 4 documents.  This reads the raw input text from `../TEXTS/`. This is a holdover, maybe I should read the texts as generated with object ids, but hey, it works.  :-)

This creates directories in `philomineload lemmas/ bigrams/ bilemmas/ trigrams/` and `trilemmas/`.   In each of these are files `PHILODOCID.rawfreq` which are made up of a string, frequency and docid:
{{{
child_child 1 380
child_field 1 380
child_free 1 380
child_make 2 380
city_dream 1 380
city_hate 1 380
}}}
This is the same format as out standard word frequencies, found in `DBDIR/frequencies/`.  

Also, in tmp/ you will find files corresponding to raw input to !TreeTagger and
!TreeTagger raw out put, by philodocid.  TEMPTEXT.63 is the raw input to TT and
TREETAGOUT.63 is the output for !PhiloDocid 63.  This is a handy way to see what
works and does not work.  We will also use the raw output to try to build a 
virtual lemmatized word search for !PhiloLogic (pending, I may add this to the
installation).  Finally, you will see `bigrams.sorted`, `bilemmas.sorted`, 
`trigrams.sorted`, `trilemmas.sorted` which are sorted by number of documents, frequency
and the NGRAM:
{{{
206 506 leave_behind
194 955 thine_eye
194 640 hear_voice
}}}
So, leave_behind appears in 206 documents, 506 times.  May be useful info.





Add your content here.  Format your content with:
  * Text in *bold* or _italic_
  * Headings, paragraphs, and lists
  * Automatic links to other wiki pages